Handling private issues (#222)
redhat-appstudio/docs.appstudio.io: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/how-to-guides/managing-applications/proc-managing_applications.adoc

== Cloning applications to a private workspace
Cloning an application involves replicating the application's code and configuration into a dedicated private workspace, ensuring the sensitive information remains isolated and protected.

.**Prerequisite**

* You have the link:https://redhat-appstudio.github.io/docs.appstudio.io/Documentation/main/getting-started/roles_permissions/[maintainer role] or greater in the original workspace where the embargoed issue was identified.
* You have downloaded the link:https://github.com/redhat-appstudio/rhtap-cli/releases[RHTAP CLI].

.**Procedure**

. Create a link:https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/duplicating-a-repository[Private Mirror] of the corresponding repository for any components that will receive fixes related to embargoed information. This step is crucial to safeguard sensitive data and prevent unauthorized access.

+
NOTE: Creating a private fork of the public link:https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/duplicating-a-repository[GitHub repository] is not possible.

> . link:https://redhat-appstudio.github.io/docs.appstudio.io/Documentation/main/how-to-guides/managing-workspaces/proc_creating_a_team_workspace/[Submit a request for a new workspace] dedicated to work on the embargoed issue. This workspace will serve as the private environment for cloning the affected application. Don't expose information about the vulnerability in your choice of a name for the workspace.

Author: Sorry, that was 3ab3677.

. To export records the application from the original workspace with details changed to refer to your new private workspace, run the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
./rhtap export application <name_of_your_application>  --from <original-tenant-workspace> --to <private-workspace> --as-prebuilt-images --skip <impacted component git url>
----

+
NOTE: Ensure that you have excluded the impacted component from which you have created a private mirror in step 1.

. Confirm that the YAML file has been generated under the `./data` directory. This file contains the necessary information for importing the application into the new workspace.
. Log in to the newly created private workspace using the `oc` CLI tool. Append `/workspaces/<private-workspace>` to the AppStudio API url used in the `oc login` command to target the new private workspace.
. Apply the generated YAML file to the new private workspace by using the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc apply -f ./data/<path-to-yaml>
----

. Within the RHTAP UI, in the private workspace, import the private mirror as a new component in the application that you just created in step 7.

> At this point, you should have a clone of your application in the new private workspace, with all of its components mirrored from the origin workspace, except the impacted component, which is now linked to the new private Git mirror repository.

Author: Oh, yes.

> At this point, you should have a clone of your application in the new private workspace, with all of its components mirrored from the origin workspace, except the impacted component, which is now linked to the new private Git mirror repository.

Author: See 16d9c8f

. Use `oc` to extract the Snapshot that you want to use as a basis for your new release to a local yaml file with `oc get snapshots <that snapshot id> -o yaml > snapshot.yaml`
. Edit the extracted file to construct a new `Snapshot` that replaces the impacted components pullspec with the pullspec of the image bearing the fix, pinned to digest. You can discard all annotations and labels and should give the Snapshot a new `name`.
. Create that new Snapshot in the system with `oc apply -f snapshot.yaml`.
. Review your integration test pipelines to confirm that the `Snapshot` is valid and can be released.
. Create a `Release` resource referencing the specified `Snapshot`. Follow a similar procedure as outlined above. Export the existing `Release` as a starting point. Modify it to reference the new `Snapshot` and make any necessary adjustments.
. In your team's normal workspace (not the private workspace), use the UI to watch the progress of the `Release`. When completed, your fix is live and available to your customers.

> . Cherry-pick the commit(s) from your private mirror back to the main Git repository used by your team for normal development.

Reviewer: This won't necessarily be possible/easy as there is no link between the repos. The commit will have to be ported over.

Reviewer: We can leave it out of scope if we use different language, i.e.
```suggestion
. Replicate the commit(s) from your private mirror back to the main Git repository used by your team for normal development.
```

or other words like "migrate"

> IMPORTANT: Ensure to apply the patch(es) from your private mirror to the Git repository that your team normally uses for managing development. Failure to do so results in security regressions in subsequent releases from your team.

Reviewer: We still do not address the need to keep the rest of the components up to date in the private workspace to ensure proper functionality in the broader sense. Should we call this out?

Author: I added a note in 361c86b. WDYT?

. To export records the application from the original workspace with details changed to refer to your new private workspace, run the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
./rhtap export application <name_of_your_application>  --from <original-tenant-workspace> --to <private-workspace> --as-prebuilt-images --skip <impacted component git url>
----

+
NOTE: Ensure that you have excluded the impacted component from which you have created a private mirror in step 1.

. Confirm that the YAML file has been generated under the `./data` directory. This file contains the necessary information for importing the application into the new workspace.
. Log in to the newly created private workspace using the `oc` CLI tool. Append `/workspaces/<private-workspace>` to the AppStudio API url used in the `oc login` command to target the new private workspace.
. Apply the generated YAML file to the new private workspace by using the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc apply -f ./data/<path-to-yaml>
----

> . Within the RHTAP UI, in the private workspace, import the private mirror as a new component in the application that was just created by the `oc` step above.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Within the RHTAP UI, in the private workspace, import the private mirror as a new component in the application that you just created in step 7.
```

> At this point, you should have a clone of your application in the new private workspace with all of its components mirrored from the origin workspace, except the impacted component which is bound to the new private git mirror repository.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At this point, you should have a clone of your application in the new private workspace, with all of its components mirrored from the origin workspace, except the impacted component, which is now linked to the new private Git mirror repository.
```

== Preparing the security fix

.**Prerequisite**

* You have cloned your application to a private workspace and have replaced the impacted component with a private mirror.

.**Procedure**

> . Verify that pull requests to your private mirror create pipelineruns in the private workspace, and that integration tests run correctly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Verify that pull requests to your private mirror create PipelineRuns in the private workspace and that integration tests run correctly.
```

. When you are satisfied that the fix is ready, wait until the embargo disclosure time before releasing your fix.

== Releasing the security fix

.**Prerequisite**

* You have prepared a fix in a private git mirror and private workspace.
* You have reviewed the fix with representatives from your security department and select members of your team on a need-to-know basis.
* The date for lifting the embargo has arrived.

.**Procedure**

. In the private workspace, use the UI to identify the pullspec of the image bearing the fix, pinned to digest.
. In your team's normal workspace (not the private workspace), use the CLI to identify a `Snapshot` that you want to use as a basis for your new release. A common choice is "the most recently released Snapshot", which you can find by picking through your history of Releases sorted by creation date to find the relevant Snapshot identifier.

> . Use `oc` to extract that Snapshot to a local yaml file with `oc get snapshots <that snapshot id> -o yaml > snapshot.yaml`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Use `oc` to extract the Snapshot that you want to use as a basis for your new release to a local yaml file with `oc get snapshots <that snapshot id> -o yaml > snapshot.yaml`
```

. Edit that file to construct a new `Snapshot` that replaces the impacted components pullspec with the pullspec of the image bearing the fix, pinned to digest. You can discard all annotations and labels and should give the Snapshot a new `name`.

> . Create that new Snapshot in the sytem with `oc apply -f snapshot.yaml`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Create that new Snapshot in the system with `oc apply -f snapshot.yaml`.
```

> . Watch your integration test pipelines confirm the `Snapshot` as valid and releasable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Watch your integration test pipelines to confirm that the `Snapshot` is valid and releasable.
```

. Create a `Release` resource referencing that `Snapshot`. Follow a similar procedure as above. Export the old `Release` as a basis. Modify it to refer to the new `Snapshot`, etc.

> . In your team's normal workspace (not the private workspace), use the UI to watch the progress of the `Release`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. In your team's normal workspace (not the private workspace), use the UI to watch the progress of the `Release`. When completed, your fix is live and available to your customers.
```

> . When it completes, your fix is now live and available to your customers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

> . Cherry pick the commit(s) from your private mirror back to the main git repository used by your team for normal development.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Cherry-pick the commit(s) from your private mirror back to the main Git repository used by your team for normal development.
```

> WARN: Be sure to apply the patch(es) from your private mirror to your the git repository that your team normally uses for managing development. If you do not do this, then subsequent releases from your team will cause security regressions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
IMPORTANT: Ensure to apply the patch(es) from your private mirror to the Git repository that your team normally uses for managing development. Failure to do so results in security regressions in subsequent releases from your team.
```

= Managing a security fix for your application

Sometimes, you need to address an **embargoed security issue** in your application. So as not to disclose aspects of the security vulnerability prematurely, you will want to prepare a fix in private or with a limited set of collaborators. This document guides you on how to make a private copy of your git repository and clone your application to a private workspace where you can prepare a fix and invite other collaborators only on a need-to-know basis, so that you can control who is aware of the issue while you develop the fix.

Key steps include:

* **Clone affected application:** Cloning affected applications into a private workspace, enabling developers to tackle security issues without exposing sensitive information.
* **Prepare the fix:** Preparing the fix with source code in your private git mirror and builds in your private workspace.
* **Release the fix:** Releasing the build from your private workspace and "upstreaming" your patch from your private git mirror back to your team's normal development repo.

== Cloning applications to a private workspace

> Cloning an application involves replicating the application's code and configuration into a dedicated private workspace, ensuring the sensitive information remains isolated and protected.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Cloning an application involves replicating the application's code and configuration into a dedicated private workspace, ensuring that sensitive information remains isolated and protected.
```
